scientist Bruce mountain is an expert on
these legs and their relationship to the
origins of life we don't have a time
machine to take us back so the only
thing we can do is look at things that
we think are similar to what they were
like and these Hot Springs are very very
close to those that would be found on
the early earth the water 75 degrees
Celsius so it's you definitely get
burned if you put your finger in there
and it's full of hydrogen sulfide which
is quite poisonous there's a bit of
arsenic in the water as well it sounds
like a deadly mix but there is life in
this pool there's billions and billions
and billions and billions of organisms
living in that water and they form a set
of orange fibers from genetic
information we know that these organisms
are quite primitive so they would be
very very close to to what the original
organisms would have looked like for the
microbes living within the orange fibers
the toxic chemicals in the water at a
rich soup of nutrients whose like this
on the early Earth fed by volcanic
activity provided all the right
chemicals needed for the emergence of
life deep down below us there's a body
of magma that's very hot now Magnum
itself is giving off gases like carbon
dioxide and sulfur dioxide and that
provides the food for these bacteria to
grow there the heat engine that drives
the whole process
volcanic pools like this a one possible
place where life might have begun
but there is an alternative theory
volcanoes created other places where
life could have started like
hydrothermal vents
discover just 30 years ago these super
hot volcanic vents are found deep in the
oceans
today they support a rich diversity of
life but four billion years ago the
combination of high temperatures and
rich chemicals these vents producer
might also have stimulated the emergence
of life